today i'm going to explain a science
fiction film called the mandela effect
spoilers ahead watch out and take care that
day a game maker named brendan his wife claire
and their daughter named sam are on vacation to a
beach the three of them enjoy being together full
of happiness jokes and laughter while they are
relaxing sam intends to look for snails around the
beach and she promises not to play in the water
claire agrees on the condition that sam doesn't go
too far from their site when sam is busy looking
for snails she doesn't realize that the waves drag
her curious george sam tries to take the doll but
unfortunately she is dragged along by the waves
sam's death makes brendan and claire feel very sad
claire tries to move on but brendan who loves his
daughter very much couldn't just let her go while
they are packing sam's things brendan accidentally
sees a book titled the berenstain bear he feels
odd because he clearly remembers that the book
was previously titled the berenstain bear with an
e instead of an a when they are sleeping suddenly
a strange sound comes from the kitchen and it
turns out to be matt his brother-in-law who comes
to look for food in the refrigerator brendan then
gives him some pizza and he also asks matt about
the book the berenstain bear matt replies that
the book is titled the berenstain bear with the
letter e but brendan shows matt that the correct
writing is the berenstain bear with the letter a
out of curiosity brendan tries to find it on the
internet and it turns out that there are many
people who think that the writing in the book is
the berenstein bear with an e brendan continues to
look for information about it until he finally
finds a theory that explains the incident
namely the mandela effect theory the next day
brendan is confused by the photo of his family
on the refrigerator he asks his wife where the
photo was taken and claire replies that it was
taken in front of the griffith observatory but
brendan is very sure that they didn't take photos
in that place instead they took pictures at the
pacific science center in seattle his wife doesn't
respond and tells him to leave because she is busy
cooking brendan then goes to see matt and talks
about the mandela effect theory brendan feels that
he is experiencing the mandela effect phenomena
but matt denies and says that the phenomenon is
just false memory but brendan still believes in
his theory and believes that he now lives in a
parallel universe brendan continues to explore
these theories and then he sees on the form that
the mandela effect is caused by an experiment
with a large hadron collider created by cern the
experiment is conducted in 2008 in russia and at
the same time many people experience strange
phenomena one of which is the mandela effect
brendan then tries to go to a priest named isaac
to find out about the existence of god but after
listening to isaac's words brendan doesn't believe
that god has created this world seeing brendan's
strange behavior claire tries to remind brendan
not to stick with past memories with sam she wants
brendan to forget the past and live a new life he
then asks his wife about the picture of the guy in
the monopoly claire firmly believes that the guy's
image in monopoly is wearing a monocle on one side
of his eye when she checks it it turns out that
the guy's image is not using a monocle furthermore
brendan also points out that the monkey character
curious george doesn't actually have a tail
but the curious george doll that sam has a tale
brendan tries to explain that all of these relate
to the theory of the mandela effect brendan
feels that sam's death at that time is just
another parallel universe version that enters the
current world and then shifted the actual events
but claire is angry and disappointed with brendan
who only cares about himself with strange theories
making them unable to move on even so brendan
remains convinced that the mandela effect exists
brendan then studies the theory deeper he
discovers that the mandela effect could
occur due to other parallel universes being
mixed into the world he is currently living in
parallel universes themselves are numerous and
each parallel universe contains another version
of the current life story he feels most likely
sam is still alive in another parallel universe
in the end he finds the name of a scientist named
dr roland fuchs who also believes that this world
is just a simulation brendan then tries to
see dr roland but he is too busy at the time
the next day brendan tries to see him again
there the two of them have a chat about roland's
research the doctor explains that his research
shows that the universe is a computer simulation
designed for an unknown purpose the simulation
then creates new simulations with a different
version of the story every second the mandela
effect experienced by brendan is a form of bug
or a mix between the current simulation and
other simulations that's what causes life to
go wrong from roland's explanation brendan also
concludes that if a program forms this world
he could change the program by using script coding
so that the world runs properly without any bugs
but it looks like he can't do that if he only uses
an ordinary computer dr roland also agrees that
they can't change the world with just an ordinary
computer with very low specifications roland then
shows brendan that he and his team have made the
first quantum computer stored in one university
dr roland then explains that there's a possibility
that brendan's program could be run using the
quantum computer brendan then decides to look for
books on quantum computer programming and start
coding scripts based on them he also combines some
of his game programming code with quantum code so
that he manages to create a new script the next
day brendan is surprised by the presence of sam
who's already at their house at first he
thinks that it is just his imagination
but in the end he believes that he is the one
who brings sam back from the parallel world
without wasting time brendan then takes advantage
of it by having fun with his daughter brendan is
happy because he manages to shift the story of
sam's death with another parallel version but
at that time brendan begins to feel strange about
claire's behavior he realizes that in the parallel
version he sees now sam is still alive but claire
becomes a very stressed woman suddenly brendan
goes straight to dr rollin but he is shocked
when he hears the news that roland committed
suicide two months ago he feels that the script
he entered cause an extraordinary mandela effect
realizing a bug in the script brendan immediately
decides to make a coding script to run the command
to reinstall the universe the reinstallation aims
to make the universe runs normally without any
bugs like the mandela effect brendan doubts the
script he is worried that the universe would be
destroyed and could not be recreated but for the
sake of his daughter and wife brendan decides to
go to the facility where the quantum computer
is and then start entering his coding script
brendan manages to run his script and the quantum
computer then shows signs of reaction brendan
immediately rushes away but he sees all the cars
in the parking lot are missing on the bus he sees
that everyone is starting to glitch he sees the
buildings also glitch brendan then goes to see
his family and he sees that the situation has gone
awry he sees his wife glitches and the building
turns dark in the end he sees two moons colliding
and finally the whole universe disappears into
the darkness a moment later brendan's script
suddenly runs again and the world began to reform
planets microbes viruses sea animals humans and
entire cities are now back to normal without any
other glitches including the mandela effect then
the scene returns when brendan claire and also sam
are at the beach when sam goes looking for snails
brendan calls sam and tells her to leave the
curious george doll which looks like it doesn't
have a tail anymore finally as sam goes looking
for snails brendan keeps an eye on his daughter
and the movie ends subscribe for more videos
like this turn on notifications and leave a like
to help the channel out thank you for watching